[Music]
washing your food is definitely the way
to make sure it's bug-free
right not really next time you're biting
into a strawberry
try to forget what else you could be
munching on as well
soaking your strawberries in salt water
before eating them can help get rid of
any pests
left living on the fruit you put them in
the salt water
returning a short while later what you
find on your strawberries is something
more like a scary movie than a delicious
treat
little maggots crawling all over your
fresh delicacy
what's going on here these gross little
maggots
aren't really maggots at all they're
none other than the larvae of a fruit
fly
tiny little wriggling fruit fly babies
escaping from the salt bath
larvae aren't the only things that have
been found in strawberries either
caterpillars and spiders have been known
to hide away in these sweet tasty spots
unaware we're getting ready to eat them
as well there's a way to test your food
if you really want to
to do this at home all you need is salt
water and some patience
soak your fruit in the salty water for
30 minutes and wait and see
if little insects are escaping your food
if none appear
that still doesn't mean you're safe they
might just be really good at hiding
fruit flies love to lay their eggs in
ripe fruit and we've been eating them
for a very long time
scientists don't believe there's any
harm from eating bugs
and there's a good reason why there are
bugs in everything we eat
caterpillars have always been found in
apples and sometimes
you won't notice you have an infested
apple until you find a caterpillar
staring back at you
fruit flies also don't just go after
strawberries either
they will lay their eggs in all sorts of
fruit
peaches grapes and even cherries aren't
safe
nothing's new about salt testing however
this practice has been around with
farmers for years
farmers regularly check handfuls of
their produce and salty water
to make sure they aren't infested does
this mean that you might have been
eating these little larvae for quite
some time
well yes the good news is that these
little creatures won't spoil your fruit
and you wouldn't have found them
normally
a little extra bug protein can't be bad
for our smoothies at all
if you don't mind the crunch sometimes i
wouldn't recommend using salt water to
clean your strawberries
the salt can take away that sweet taste
you're craving
fresh water should be used to help get
rid of any pesticides and insect pieces
left on the outside
this should be done the same way we wash
our hands for 20 to 30 seconds
this is a great way to preserve the
taste of your fruit and remove any
residue as well
vinegar and water work well too
having tiny insects in my food rather
than big spiders
is something i would prefer any day look
at these long legs in those eyes
a family in the uk bought a lovely bunch
of bananas at their local shop in 2016
but didn't realize that unexpected
guests were coming home with them as
well
these spiders decided to come out of
their nest and explore their new home
much to the fright of the family
the bananas came from brazil and the
brazilian wandering spider
followed its name properly and came to
the uk
not surprisingly the family had to
vacate their home to get rid of the
unwanted spiders
and probably won't buy bananas ever
again
the truth with all fruit and vegetables
is that there are always going to be
insects found
in and on them if little bugs crawling
out of fruit make you feel uneasy
i have to tell you that you've been
eating them voluntarily
for quite some time for many years
red food coloring has been made from one
source
a tiny beetle this beetle lives mainly
in south america
and has been used to color anything from
cakes and candy
to even being in your favorite cup of
coffee a few years ago
if eating beetles bothers you all you
need to look for
is e120 or natural red four
on the package to know if you're going
to eat delicious bugs
major companies have stopped using this
form of food coloring
but that doesn't mean we're going to
stop eating bugs that shine on your
favorite candy
also comes from the indian female lack
bug
the beetle leaves behind a substance
that is scraped from trees
to be formed into dried shellac
in many countries it's a very common
thing to eat and a lot of scientists
believe
we should be consuming more bugs
in thailand china and japan it's common
to walk along the streets
and find interesting crickets and
silkworms available to eat
in australia the aborigines eat the
honeypot ant
and wichity grubs that are full of
nutrition apparently
i think i'll stick to bee honey for now
though
if you love coffee and tea you're
consuming more than your fair share of
bug parts
namely over 100 thousand of them there
are more bugs in our pantries
than in any of the food we bring home
from the supermarket
these little insects will overtake your
supplies of flour and pasta very quickly
if not stored properly but before you
notice them
you will have eaten them
every packet of flour or spices contains
bits of insects as well
which makes our cakes and food taste
just that little bit nicer
doesn't it ground pepper is used daily
with cooking
and more insects are found here than in
any other spices
there can be over 400 pieces in 2 ounces
so this must be the secret ingredient to
a good meal
having 1 cup of raisins adds to your
daily intake of protein with fruit fly
eggs
and as many as 10 whole critters dried
as well
getting hungry yet we can consume
up to two pounds of insects a year
without even knowing it
that's nearly the same as 200 golf balls
eaten every single year
that's a lot of trips to the golf course
even chocolate isn't safe chocolate is
filled with insects it only officially
becomes a problem if the chocolate has
over 60 insect pieces per 3.5 ounces
which isn't as much as you think
cockroaches and moths make up a tiny
portion of our treats
and it could be the secret ingredient
that makes chocolate so satisfying
are those peanuts or legs
anyone that has chocolate allergies can
now be slightly relieved
according to testing a lot of people
aren't allergic to cocoa
it's the ground up cockroach that causes
these allergies
and chocolate isn't the only enjoyable
treat affected
cockroach pieces have been found in
peanut butter and cheese as well
so maybe that wasn't just crunchy peanut
butter
after all to help the problem
companies are making chocolate-covered
crickets
ants and bees thus creating a new
delicacy around the world
the taste is like crispy rice and
slightly nutty
chocolate mealworm cookies anyone
during the 19th century the now extinct
rocky mountain locusts
destroyed the farmlands of the usa these
swarms could weigh up to 27 million
tons and contain over 12 trillion
insects
this would be the same amount of protein
as 40 million cows
or just under half the number of cows in
the us now
geez that's a lot of locust burgers
guinness world records has these swarms
as the biggest concentration of animals
ever something that will be hard to beat
i feel sorry for the person that has to
count all the locusts
with nearly 2 000 varieties of insects
available to eat
it's not really a question of when
you're going to eat some
it's how they're rich in protein healthy
fats
vitamins and minerals so we should be
eating more of them
in fact scientists believe that bugs
will become part of the new normal diet
in a few years it turns out eating
insects could be way more beneficial for
the planet
than creating agricultural farms these
pests are actually becoming more popular
around the world now
with many restaurants offering crispy
crickets as appetizers
if we're already munching on them daily
that shouldn't be a hard thing to move
into
cockroach tacos with a side of crunchy
mealworms
could be something our kids could be
ordering at their favorite restaurants
and we would be the weird ones to them
what do you mean you
ate cows huh that's strange mom